---
title: Generative A.I
date: 2026-06-17 17:13:00 -0400
categories: [Artificial Intelligence]
tags: [gen-ai, machine learning]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---
# This Repo post focuses on what Generative A.I is.
We all know that Gen A.I, Machine Learning and Deep Learning are changed interchangeably all the time now. During my final semester 
as a junior at UAlbany I had the opportunity and the task to learn about how generative A.I works.

*These notes are based on a video by Google Cloud in YouTube* Link Below
## Introduction to Gen AI
1. What is AI?
2. How it Works?
3. Different Model Types?
4. Applications?

**First of A.I is not ~~equal to~~ Machine Learning.**
- It is a branch of Computer Science
- Which Deals with generation of intelligent ***agents***.

***What are agents?***
They can reason, learn and act autonomously.

***What is Machine Learning?***
- a subfield of A.I
- A system that trains a model from input data
> "**Machine Learning gives computers the ability to learn without explicit learning**"

## Machine can be divided into 2 further models
1. Supervised Model
   - Data is Labeled
   - Learns from past examples to predict the future values
2. Unsupervised Model
   - Unlabeled Data
   - See if a patterns occurs from given raw data?
# Deep Learning is a subset of Machine Learning
Deep Learning can:
- process more == complex patterns ==
- because it uses ***Artificial Neural Networks***
<p style="color:blue">Make this text blue.</p>

**Artificial Neural Networks** are inspired by the human brain. \
Made up of many interconnected nodes which are ususally called Neurons as well. \
These can use both labeled and unlabeled data which is knows as Semi-Supervised learning. 
**Labeled Data:** teaches basic concepts of the task
**Un-Labeled Data:** Generalizes new examples.
